Isabel Aretas, widow of cartel kingpin Benito, escapes from a Mexican prison with the aid of her son Armando. Isabel sends Armando to Miami, tasking him with recovering a substantial stash of money his father Benito had hidden, as well as assassinating the people responsible for Benito's arrest and eventual death in prison, the last on the list being Miami Police Department Detective Mike Lowrey.
In Miami, Mike accompanies his partner Marcus Burnett to the birth of his first grandson. Desiring to spend more time with his family, Marcus tells Mike he intends to retire, to Mike's chagrin. During a party celebrating the birth Marcus's grandson, Mike is shot by Armando and left in a coma for months. Chastised by Isabel for targeting Mike first, Armando continues to assassinate other targets on his list during Mike's convalescence.
Following Mike's recovery, he is determined to seek revenge and unsuccessfully attempts to recruit the now-retired Marcus, causing a falling-out between them. Alone, Mike violently interrogates a gangland informant and obtains the name of arms dealer Booker Grassie, who supplied the gun that shot him. Realizing that Mike will not heed orders to stay away from the investigation, Captain Howard reluctantly allows him to work with the tech-driven team in charge, Advanced Miami Metro Operations (AMMO), led by Mike's ex-girlfriend Rita. While the team surveils Grassie at an arms deal, Mike intervenes after determining the buyers intend to kill Grassie, but he fails to save him. Later, Marcus is called by Carver Remy, an old informant who believes the assassin is after him. Marcus and Mike travel to meet Carver, but he is killed as they arrive, and Armando escapes after a fistfight with Mike.
Captain Howard later reveals his intentions to retire as well, offering advice to Mike that he needs to find a path forward in life. He is abruptly assassinated by Armando moments later. The captain's death pulls Marcus out of retirement, but he convinces Mike to work as a team with AMMO. They track down Grassie's accountant, who leads them to Lorenzo "Zway-Lo" Rodriguez, a local gang member recruited by Armando. They infiltrate Zway-Lo's birthday party, leading to a destructive car chase. Armando arrives in a helicopter to rescue Zway-Lo but kills him when he blocks Armando's ability to shoot the pursuing Mike. As he lines up a shot, Armando delivers his mother's message to Mike: "Hasta el fuego". Gunfire from Marcus creates cover for Mike, who falls into the water below.
AMMO is shut down because of the failed operation. In private, Mike reveals to Marcus that Armando may be his son. Before partnering with Marcus, Howard recruited Mike to infiltrate the Aretas cartel where he met Isabel. They fell in love and intended to run away together, using "Hasta el fuego" as a made-up secret catchphrase. Mike ultimately remained loyal to the police, realizing how dangerous Isabel had become. Despite Mike's opposition, Marcus and AMMO join him in Mexico City to confront her.
At the abandoned Hidalgo Palace, Mike meets Isabel and rebukes her for concealing the truth from him. A shootout quickly ensues between AMMO and Isabel's men. Marcus shoots the pilot of Isabel's escape helicopter, causing it to crash into the central lobby and start a fire. Marcus confronts Isabel, while Mike tries to explain the truth to Armando. In a fit of rage, Armando beats up Mike, who refuses to retaliate. Armando demands the truth from his mother, and Isabel confirms that Mike is his real father. Realizing the task he spent a lifetime training for was a lie, Armando tries to reason with his mother, leading to Isabel inadvertently shooting Armando in the chest while aiming for Mike. Enraged, she attempts to shoot Mike again, but Rita intervenes and shoots Isabel, who falls to her death. Marcus nearly falls to his death as well, but Mike and the wounded Armando pull him to safety, and they evacuate the burning building with AMMO.
Sometime later, Rita has been promoted to Captain, while Mike and Marcus are placed in charge of AMMO. Mike visits a remorseful Armando in prison, offering him a chance to earn some redemption, which he accepts.
